Document process/workflow recursion (#5974)
nextflow-io/nextflow: docs/workflow.md

}
```

(workflow-recursion)=

## Process and workflow recursion

:::{versionadded} 21.11.0-edge
:::

:::{note}
This feature requires the `nextflow.preview.recursion` feature flag to be enabled.
:::

Processes can be invoked recursively using the `recurse` method.

```{literalinclude} ../snippets/recurse-process.nf
:language: nextflow
```

```{literalinclude} ../snippets/recurse-process.out
:language: console
```

> In the above example, the `count_down` process is invoked first with `params.start`, then again with the output of that invocation, and so on. The `until` method is used to limit the recursion based on a condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the `count_down` process is first invoked with the value `params.start`. On each subsequent iteration, the process is invoked again using the output from the previous iteration. The recursion continues until the specified condition is met, as defined by the `until` method, which terminates the recursion.
```

The recursive output can also be limited using the `times` method:

```groovy
count_down
    .recurse(params.start)
    .times(3)
    .view { v -> "${v}..." }
```

Workflows can also be invoked recursively:

```{literalinclude} ../snippets/recurse-workflow.nf
:language: nextflow
```

```{literalinclude} ../snippets/recurse-workflow.out
:language: console
```

**Limitations**

> - The recursive process or workflow must have matching inputs and outputs, so that the outputs can be fed back into the inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Recursive processes or workflows require that the structure and types of their outputs match those of their inputs. This is necessary to ensure that the outputs from each iteration can be correctly fed back as inputs for the next iteration.
```

> - Recursive workflows cannot use *reduction* operators such as `collect`, `reduce`, and `toList`, because these operators cause the recursion to hang forever after the first iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Recursive workflows cannot use *reduction* operators such as `collect`, `reduce`, and `toList`, because these operators cause the recursion to hang indefinitely after the initial iteration.
```
